As the complexity of
our programs grow,
it's also likely that we'll
reuse the same lines of code.
Writing this code
multiple times would
be time-consuming, but luckily
we have a way to manage this.
We can use functions.
A function is a section
of code that can be
reused in a program.
We already learned one
function when we worked with
print and used it to output
specified data to the screen.
For example, we printed
"Hello Python."
There are many other functions.
Sometimes, we need to
automate a task that
might otherwise be repetitive
if we did it manually.
Previously, we compared
other key Python components
to elements of a kitchen.
We compared data types
to categories of food.
There are differences
in how we handle
vegetables and
meat, and likewise,
there are differences in how
we handle different data types.
We then discussed
how variables are
like the containers you
put food in after a meal;
what they hold can change.
As far as functions,
we can think about them
like a dishwasher.
If you aren't using
a dishwasher,
you'll spend a lot of time
washing each dish separately.
But a dishwasher automates
this and lets you wash
everything at once.
Similarly, functions
improve efficiency.
They perform
repetitive activities
within a program and allow
it to work effectively.
Functions are made to be
reused in our programs.
They consist of small
instructions and can be called
upon any number of
times and from anywhere
in our programs.
Another benefit to functions is
that if we ever had to
make changes to them,
we can make those changes
directly in the function,
and there'll be applied
everywhere we use them.
This is much better than making
the same changes in
many different places
within a program.
The print() function is an
example of a built-in function.
Built-in functions
are functions that
exist within Python and
can be called directly.
They are available
to us by default.
We can also create
our own functions.
User-defined functions
are functions that
programmers design for
their specific needs.
Both types of functions are
like mini-programs
within a larger program.
They make working in Python much
more effective and efficient.
Let's continue learning
more about them.